# Locks & Multi-thread and concurrency
Hi Catherine,

Thank you for inviting me to the job interview for the Sr.Java Developer position at Snaplii. I'm excited to have the opportunity to meet with you and discuss my qualifications further.

I am pleased to inform you that I have chosen a time that works for me from your calendar. Our interview is scheduled for 3:30pm - 4:00pm, Thursday, March 2, 2023(EST)

Thank you again for considering my application. I look forward to speaking with you soon.

Kind Regards,
Yujing

## [Basic concurrency JDK8](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/concurrency/index.html) Reading Notes
- Concurrent programming is mostly concerned with threads.
- Processing time for a single core is shared among processes and threads through **time slicing**.(an OS feature)
- Each **process** has its own memory space.
- **Threads** are sometimes called _lightweight processes_.
- Threads **share the process's resources**, including memory and open files.
- *Runnable* idiom is more general because it is single inheritance in Java. So the Runnable object can subclass a class other than Thread, it is more flexible. It is applicable to the high-level thread management APIs covered later.
- **Thread.sleep** can to suspend execution for a specified period. The _sleep_ method can wait for other threads.
- **sleep** **specifies time** is millisecond and nanosecond, even though it is not precise. Also, the sleep period can **be terminated by interrupts**.
- **Interrupt** 
- Many methods that throw _InterruptedException_, such as _sleep_, are designed to **cancel their current operation and return immediately** when an interrupt is received.
- if a thread goes a long time without invoking a method that throws _InterruptedException_, it must periodically invoke _Thread.interrupted_.
```
    if (Thread.interrupted()) {
        throw new InterruptedException();
    }
```
- Invoking **Thread.interrupt** sets an internal flag called _interrupt status_.
- Invoking **Thread.interrupted**, interrupt status is cleared.
- Invoking **Thread.isInterrupted**,  one thread to query the interrupt status of another, does not change the interrupt status flag.




[continue](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/concurrency/join.html)


## Tech Words Familiar
- time slicing
- feature
- concurrent
- system capacity
- execution cores
- self-contained = independent
- process = program or application
- Inter Process Communication(IPC)
- pipe
- socket
- implementation
- scope = range
- lightweight processes
- Multi-thread
- main thread
- associate verb = to make a connection  ... associate with
- strategy = a planned series of actions for achieving something
- instantiate = represent as an instance
- initiate = to arrange for something important to start  | initiate a task
- asynchronous(adj.)= not existing or happening at the same time
- inheritance (noun)- money or property that you receive from someone who has died
- descendant (noun) - like a kids. eg: He was a direct descendant of KongZi.
- approach (noun) method/ask/movement towards
- suspend (verb) stop/hang
## No-tech Words Familiar
- enhance = to improve something
- synonymous = same
- cooperate = to work with someone else
- facilitate = to make it easier for a process or activity to happen
- efficient [P]
- potentially = possible
- potentially problematic
- demonstrate verb = demo
- separate (adjective) different; not related to or not affected by something else; _separate from_ 
- affect the **status** of (noun) - your social or professional rank or position, considered in relation to other people - e.g.These include static methods, which provide information about, or affect the status of, the thread invoking the method.
- examine /ɪɡˈzæmɪn/ (verb) -  to look at something carefully and thoroughly because you want to find out more about it
- terminate verb