# Projects Prepare
# 1.  Open Source Security Guard

- ## Summary:
Open Source Security Guard is a platform face to business customers, like the bank, insurance and financial companies.
The core function is analysis the components, vulnerabilities and licenses of software.
We still offer the risk **audit**, management and export reports.
<br/>My duty in there is:
  * developing new features;
  * developing the report system;
  * optimizing some performance issues, such as by **migrating** the service to microservices, or reducing the data pass process; to improve the response speed, we also designed some extra fields to reduce computing when client search.

- ## Detail:
The process is basically like this. First, the client uploads their software package such as a tar or zip in our view service, then they can choose an analysis model like regular or just vulnerability or just text license analysis. And we will check if it is a scheduled task. If yes, we will create a record for the task. Otherwise, this source will be sent to a scanning service.
<br/><br/>This view service is mainly for queries and handles some user interaction behavior. The scanning service unzips it and sends the source to a big-data service to do the real analysis. Normally, it will spend about three to ten minutes. When the source is large, it will be spent more than one hour. Then big-data service will send back to us a result zip package. We have to unzip it to get a JSON result file. The file includes the program languages, the components, the components' source path, and some risks.
<br/>Later, optimizing it became one of the biggest challenging tasks for me. Before I upgrade it, we read and save the data as some single JSON in MongoDB, and they use the parentId field to show the connections. This part of data will be used in a feature, such as the components or risks  are imported from which code rows. At the same time, we have an asynchronous thread to do the storage and save the id of components and vulnerabilities in MySQL. It became the basic result.
<br/><br/>Also, we have metadata storage in MongoDB. It was storage as some collections, like module, version and vulnerability. Of course, we have the id, and like risk level, moduleName, versionName and recommend version so on fields.
<br/><br/>When the customer sees the result, the view will show the module info, version source, component relationship, risk level, vulnerabilities, recommended versions and licenses. Besides, they can export a Word or Excel or PDF file to see the summary and detailed results.
<br/><br/>Moreover, we have some statistics with different dimensions, such as one project or the whole enterprise. These statistics can be exported as an Excel report.
<br/><br/>As you know, the report will occupy many resources with the core business. So we optimized it to take the report out as an independent report system.

- ## Main technology:
To build the project, we mainly use maven. And the development framework is Spring Boot. Also, we use Active MQ and HTTP Requests for inter-service communication.

- ## Big challenge && Big successful
Upgrade the big JSON result file.

- ## Teamwork
I led to optimizing some main features and designed some interfaces. We have to replace all places where the interface is called. 
<br/>First, I researched all the scenarios where the old interface was called, then I designed some more clear and general interfaces and implemented them. 
<br/>Then I replaced some places where it was called. Because it involved many colleagues, I wrote a handbook to introduce what I have already done and what should they do.
<br/>When I shared it with my team, a colleague gave me a suggestion about some details of how to implement it. I read it carefully, then I realized that the suggestion was good, but it's not suitable in this case.So I tried to clarify with him. 
<br/>We started talking about it in the group by text. But we couldn't agree with each other, so I stopped texting him, and instead called him. After about 5 minutes of the call, we reached a **consensus**. 
<br/>Then I updated the result to our team and my boss. Finally, we did the task well.

# 2. BI data platform
- ## summary
BI data platform and merchant sales declare was designed for shopping malls. Some stores in shopping mall, is fixed-paid. So they will pay to the mall for they sales. 
Some of them will declare a small amount to reduce their income, so they can pay rents less. At the same time, we can collect the sales and every bill, so also give some business suggestions to them.
- ## detail
The result data was saved in ElasticSearch, we will execute a program to do the basic data prepared in midnight. Because, even a store have no sales today, the mall still want to see it in the table.
Then, when they start opening, the bills will send to a data point program by a Message Queue called rabbitMQ. This data point program will save every bill the another index in ElasticSearch.
At the same time, BI system will update the **increase** data to the sales index. 
- ## main technology

- ## big successful

- ## big challenge

- ## teamwork

# 3. Merchant Sales-data Declare System
- ## summary

- ## detail

- ## main technology

- ## big successful

- ## big challenge

- ## teamwork

